>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Complexity
leads to purgatory,
any seasoned developers in the room,
or even not.
I think it took all of two hours or
less of me trying to program before I
found myself in this state of,
what is going on, like doesn't feel good.
So have you ever been programming on
something and you just hated your life?
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: You're just like,
I wanna quit and go deliver pizzas,
like this is not fun.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: The majority
of the time it's because of complexity.
And so to be clear, sometimes even
just ambiguity leads to complexity.
Things appear, where you're processing
things and the perspective is that it's
very complex because it's ambiguous,
like, what's happening.
But complexity leads to purgatory, so
let's see a couple examples here,
and just to illustrate my point.
I'm not trying to scare you, but
imagine if I can kind of kind of drive
these points home in a few slides.
Now, imagine doing this at an enterprise
app level.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
let's take this code here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We are calling
a method inbound,
over here, taking an item,
we're doing some kind of processing,
and we're then returning a total.
So, an item comes in,
based on this value here, currentCategory.
Determines what logic gets processed, and
then you return a total based on that.
So this is kind of some quasi code, but
the question is, when you call this,
what are you going to get?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Well,
the answer is you don't know.
Like you cannot say for
certain, in itself,
in a vacuum, when you call this
what you are going to get.
The reason being,
is because this method has hidden state.
So I could call this 10000 times and
get a different result every single time.
The reason being, is that if I'm changing
current category I'm changing
the internal workings of this method.
And now, in order for
me to reliably assert that this method is
going to return this thing or
there's going to be this outcome,
I also have to control this hidden
internal state, in this case,
it's currentCategory.
And so now we're thinking, in order for
me to wrap my mind around this method,
I also have to add in this additional
piece into my Cogno processing.
As human beings are not very good at this,
so for
instance,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's say we have
three dice.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: How many
possible combinations can
we have with three dice?
So I know there is a math formula for
this, but for me,
when I try to think it off the top
of my head, I can't do it.
So imagine you have these three things
in your method that affect the outcome,
and now you have to try to figure out
what is going to be the outcome of this.
So, I think kind of the easy argument for
this is,
is like well that's why we write unitests.
The problem is, or rather I'm all for
unitests, but we have this little thing
called before each, as in every test
that you run, you are resetting state,
you're controlling the state
as it goes into the text.
So we have this equivalent in real life,
and
its called restart your computer,
restart your phone, refresh the browser.
Cuz what happens, you go in a bad state,
a state you didn't intend to,
you have to refresh it,
you have to reset that state.
That is kind of the real life equivalent,
IRL before each is it's called restart
the thing, because you've gotten
your application into a state that
the developer did not account for.
So you can see one method
one internal state and
we can no longer assert what
this is going to be without
understanding the impact
of that hidden state.
And not only that, if you were
to introduce an additional logic
structure into this,
like let's say it was a child, then,
do this, because this other
outcome would be dangerous.
And, this kinda seems a little
contrived; I've seen way worse.
In the sense it's very common
to see blocks of code that is
doing multiple things where
you just see this procedural,
top down, if this do this,
if this do this, if this etc.
But the problem is,
how do you even test this,
this internal thing,
this structure right here?
How would you say, if it's dangerous and
it's a child, do this, if not.
The only way to get to this is you
have to step through the entire
rest of this body to get to it.
So again, complexity leads to purgatory.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
now we're thinking like well how do
we manage these possible states?
Let's take it a step further.
So this is a real easy one,
we have an inventory class,
two components,
that have this add method on it.
And so each component simply
you can call add on it and,
it will update the total
on the inventory ledger.
This seems totally benign,
when I started Angular JS,
I did something like this all the time,
the problem is,
this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What happens if
the items component has a requirement
that you can never ever, ever,
ever, ever or
the factory will explode have a negative
number?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Or
you can never get below 10.
So let's say this was like a thermostat or
something.
There is a real reason why something
cannot be in certain state or
you cannot have a certain value.
So, what would keep the widgets component,
so let's just say you can't have
a negative number,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: In the items
component.
The widgets component does not
share that same constraint,
what would keep the WidgetsComponent
from setting it to
the negative 10?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: One,
the answer is nothing at all.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: More
importantly it's that,
I think in kind of the benign approach or
kind of the trick, I think people
get kind of lulled into this.
Is you have a programmer
writing both of these classes,
they're like I just know like they're
here like I know you can do it.
And so it's kinda right there,
on top of mine.
But what happens when three months
later some other developers come and
they're not aware of the constraints?
So that's how, in a very poor way, you
would keep this from happening you said,
the widget's component has to have
knowledge of the ItemsComponent,
and vice versa.
And so now purely because of the fact
they are in this mutual state of like,
mutually assured destruction, if you will,
that they're coupled together.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: One has to know
something about, some constraint that
has nothing to do with that component.
And so this is where shared
mutable state is a real problem,
and we saw it yesterday when
we were doing the detail form,
we started typing and
it's changing over here.
You had to be super careful to avoid that,
let's talk about controlling flow.
So this is actually from Jafar course, so
this is kind of a big
problem they had at Netflix.
And so kind of borrowing
the approach they did is,
what happens when you have,
you're making a call with a promise,
and you need to recover and do it again?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What do you do?
So anyone who studied 1.x, I mean,
that's a real concern it's like,
hey, this call failed I wanna actually
recover, I wanna try it again,
I wanna retry.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Well,
the only way to do that is
to introduce more code.
Like, this is how code
volume spins out of control,
it's cuz you don't have mechanisms so
they're kind of like agitate each other.
It's like I don't have the proper
mechanism to manage my control flow, so
I have to introduce more code volume,
which then introduces state.
Or I have to introduce state
which is more code volume,
and it's just this cycle of
complexity leading to purgatory.
So in this case I need a retries count,
again that's outside of the structure,
that you're saying, try it three times,
if not, then give up.
Now imagine, and
this is where Jafar just was kind of like,
you're starting to imagine if you had
two calls that you had to coordinate.
So in the case of Netflix, you will
basically wanna go get the videos that
users requests but at the same time
you need to check to make sure that
they're logged in, and
they're dependent on each other.
So you cannot move further like forward
without both of them successfully
resolving, like how do you control that?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I
think I'm getting an ulcer
thinking about this.
I mean, these are easy things that
can fit on a single slide, and
already you're like that
is a really hard problem.
And so this is where this leads to,
again, state management,
grove control, and variably,
I think the bottom of the threes,
what you end up doing is writing
more code to try to handle it.